1991 industry policy
The broad objectives of New Industrial Policy are as follows:
(i) Liberalising the industry from the regulatory devices such as licenses and controls.
(ii) Enhancing support to the small scale sector.
(iii) Increasing competitiveness of industries for the benefit of the common man.
(iv) Ensuring running of public enterprises on business lines and thus cutting their losses.
(v) Providing more incentives for industrialisation of the backward areas, and
(vi) Ensuring rapid industrial development in a competitive environment.
Positive impact of NIP 1991:
1. Increase in production 
2. Removal of bureaucratic hurdles 
3. Increase in competition 
4. Increase in efficiency of public sector 
5. Increase in foreign investment 
6. Increase in exports 
7. Balanced regional development 
8. Less economic burden of government
Negative impact of NIP 1991:
1. concentration of economic power
2. increase in unemployment 
3. ignore social objectives 
4. distortion in production structure:growth of capital goods industries declined.
5. adverse effect of small scale industries 
6. .increase in regional imbalances 
7. personalized relationship and corrupt practices still continue 
8.industry influence on politics and decision making.

->Paper industry
-Canada ontrio is largest news paper producer.?
- Presently FDI upto 100% is allowed on the automatic route for the pulp and paper
 sector
-India continue to reign one of the fastest growing paper market in the world. 
There are about 759 units which manufacture pulp, paper board and newsprint.
Location factor
1. Raw Material:
Wood is the primary raw material for this industry. Pulp mills must be located near
 the forests 
because this minimises the difficulty of transporting the bulk logs as well as cost also.
 A river-side site is ideal because logs can be floated directly to the mill.
2. Water:
 vast quantities of clear chemical free, fresh water must be available.
3. Power:
vast power sources are essential. Paper plants show an affinity towards cheap 
hydel-power sources.
 Ex. Canada and southern USA 
4. Transport:
The transport cost of newsprint and paper is slightly higher than the transport cost 
of its raw material. Paper mills are usually situated near the coast, where the rivers
 on which the log 
 are floated reach the sea,
 and where paper or pulp can be loaded on ships for export. Ex. Sweden and Britain Miils., .
5. Capital:
 large capital is required for sophisticated machinery and other works. 
 The larger the mill the greater is the initial costs.
 The large paper mills are also associated with the printing and publishing business 
 and often own their own forests.
PErformance
-doing good 
-has shaped up well in the face of increasing competition from the overseas players
-Good operating capacity
-Still ned fix as it is fragmented , special papers are being imported in the country..

->Sugur industry plight
-Reasons
-Banks not interesting in lending coz as per court ruling farmer got first right on sugar 
stock untill their dews are cleared.
-A mill can buy sugarcane within 15km of its proximity as it has to be crushed within 24 
hours.so far mers at hand of nearby mill
-Delay in payments from centre/state govt. Suger industry in UP owns thousands of crores to
 farmers
-High sugercane price mandated by state govt and low market sugar price (for current sugar 
price 25/kg corresponding sugarcane
 should be 195/quintal but it is around 280 in UP).
-As sugar and sugarcane - comes under the Essential Commodities Act, the state government 
is well within its powers to launch criminal proceedings if arrears are not paid, which can 
include arrest.
 -Mills using labour intensive old tech.
 -Mills can't be shut down unless allowded by DM.
 -By-Product obtained from sugar processings like Molasses, Baggesse and Press-mud has lower 
 demand in India
 -Sugar must be packed in Jute bags only as per the Govt rule, to secure dying Jute industries.
 low availability of jute bag.
 -Strong union leaders and politicians staying the reforms.
-Price in international market has fallen due to excessive production in Brazil 
-5% petrol and diesel blending with ethanol is not done yet.
steps taken
-UP govt announced to give 40/quintal subsidy on sugarcane procurement if sugar price go below 31/kg.
-import duty on sugar to spur domestic production 
-Maharashtra government has approved waiver of purchase tax, allowed the inter-state movement of molasses and Rs. 1000 export subsidy to bring down the piled up stock.
-Centre has approved export subsidy of Rs. 4000 per tonne and also capped the export to 14 lakh tonnes for current production season.
